Introducing: Improving low vision chart
accessibility via on cursor visual context.
For low vision users,
reading charts is a complex task,
requiring exhausting panning,
zooming, and mental reconstruction.
We overlay semantic context
directly around the pointer.
Our method works together with existing
assistive tools and makes accessing charts
easier for low vision users.
Informed by our formative study, identify
four critical elements for access
the axes, the legend, the gridlines,
and the overview.
We explore two interaction paradigms.
Mini map inspired by overview
plus detail and dynamic context.
Inspired by focus plus context methods.
We evaluated these with 22 low vision
participants using a mixed
methods approach across
diverse chart types.
Our results show that dynamic context
significantly increases
the usability of existing assistive tools
for chart exploration.
We observed a fundamental shift in access
patterns on some visualizations,
where the way users navigate data change
significantly.
Dynamic context
significantly reduced both the physical
and overall effort
required to read and interpret charts.
While both methods improve access,
dynamic context had a significantly higher
impact on a user's
sense of autonomy and data clarity.
Dynamic context is an approach
that gives low vision people
easier access to what
they should see within its context.
Thank you.
Please read our paper to learn more.